# Analysis of Theater Kickstarter Campaign Outcomes 

## Introduction 

We begin this analysis by looking at raw data for Kickstarter campaigns aimed at funding entertainment media and entertainment media-related projects. This data provides us specific campaign details such as goals and results along with a few descriptive factors. 

Specifically, this analysis takes a deeper look at Kickstarter campaigns in the field of theater. We attempt to zero in on some key factors to gain insight on what exactly drives a successful campaign. By identifying trends from past campaigns, we're able to make suggestions to future campaigns on what factors to consider when launching. 

## Analysis 

The first factor we analyzed was the launch date of campaigns across several years of data, specifically what month of the year they were launched. While this parameter is straightforward, obtaining the results was not necessarily so. While the raw data did contain launch dates for all campaigns, these were formatted as Unix timecodes and not the traditional short date format necessary for our analysis. Converting these to a standard date format required first understanding what a Unix time code represents. Our research revealed that the string of numbers that make up a Unix timecode represent the amount of seconds elapsed since January 1, 1970. With this in mind, we were able to convert each value with a simple formula that could quickly be applied to the entire data set. Each value was first divided by 60, to obtain the figure in minutes, then again by 60 to obtain hours, and finally divided once again by 24 to obtain the Unix value in days. The number of days was then added to the date 1/1/1970 to arrive at the launch date of each campaign. 

We next narrowed our scope to look specifically at the outcomes of campaigns aimed at funding plays, as this research was being conducted for the purpose of fundraising a play. One of the more challenging factors in launching a funding campaign was determining a goal amount. While the cost of production is ceratinly a driver of this amount, we should also consider what success previous campaigns have had at different goal ranges. To visualize this data, we created a table that totaled successful and unsuccesful campaigns at different campaign ranges and charted them together to visualize trends that might help us make our decision. The counting was performed by applying conditoinal statements to our raw data that added values that matched the conditions we indicated (i.e. "plays" with a campaign goal in the range x<n<y that were successful. 

## Results 

Is the timing of our success ever a concidence? In the case of our Kickstarter campaign outcome analysis, it would appear not. There is a sharp upturn in successful campaigns launched in the summer months. While there is an overall increase in campaigns launched during summer months, the rate of successful campaigns is still above average for the rest of the year. While this data would suggest it's best to launch your campaign in the summer, there is ceratainly more research to be done to determine why that's the case and If we should strictly launch during the summer. Certainly this metric needs context and the results from this analysis could be strengthened by zeroing in on different factors around those specific campaigns. Similarly, there is a dip in success rates for campaigns launched at year end, around November and December. This analysis would tell us to stay away from launching during this time of year, however more research must be conducted on these campaigns before any results could be considered definitive. 

Our analysis also reveals a strong correlation between campaign funding goals and the success of that campaign. Generally, campaigns with goals under $20,000 ten to have a higher success rate than those beyond this threshold. There are some inconsistencies in this logic, however, as we see a slight increase in success rate in campaigns with goals in the $35,000-$45,000 range. As with our previous metric, more context must be provided for these results. A more thorough Analysis that contextualizes all these factors at once along with others such as location and target audience of the content could reveal more insightful results that would help make a truly optimal decision for our own campaign. 

